# BIDS Maintainers group meeting- BEP 029 Update
*Minutes for 30.03.2021*

__Present__: Sein Jeung, Julius Welzel, Stefan Appelhoff, Chris Markiewicz, Kay Robbins, Ross Blair,Remi Gau, Franklin Feingold

In the following the most important point from a call between the above mentioned members are summarised. An update on the current situation of the [BEP029](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iaaLKgWjK5pcISD1MVxHKexB3PZWfE2aAC5HF_pCZWo/edit) was given and open questions were adressed by the committee members .

## Terminology
Tracking System - A system which is recording motion data independent of other systems
Tracked Point - A specific point on an object that is being tracked, which can be a body part or an inanimate object. (Count in *_motion.json, name & label in *_channels.tsv)
Axis - Refers to the axis along which the Cartesian coordinates are defined in case of position data, or an axis around which sequences of rotations are applied (Euler angles). Previously refered to as "component"
Coordinate system - should be present when applicable. Usage can vary from setup to setup, but specifying up-down, forward-backward, left-right axes can help visualizing the data in an easily interpretable way. 

## **_motion.json** files
**Problem:**
Motion data is often recorded using multiple recording devices with potentially different sampling rates from each other - this results in multiple .tsv files specific to a device or sometimes an entire recording system.

**Approach:**
Introduce objects in **_motion.json** in filed tracking systems. Each object has similar to other BIDS device keywords. Try examples where grouping is done by type of recording. The multiple *_motion.tsv files, *_motion.json object, and column "tracking_system" in *_chanels.tsv will match with each other. In filenames for *_motion.tsv, we can consider using a new key-value pair for indicating motion tracking system such as "...task-walking_tracksys-xsens_motion.tsv". 

## **_channels.tsv** files
**Problem:**
Multiple tracking systems from the _motion.json have multiple channel files.

**Approach:**
One single channels.tsv file which contains all relevant information including tracked point, axis-component and placement. This *_channels.tsv may have the same name as the *_channels.tsv files in other folders (such as EEG). In simultaneously recorded M-EEG case this has been done. The *_motion.tsv files will contain headers. 

## Other points  
Vocabulary for anatomical body parts is also relevant for PET, microscopy, and animal physiology BEPs. 
To test solutions for multiple devices, try creating multiple versions of the example data sets that realize each of the soultions separately, and then evaluate. 
Later on, when submitting a pull request, consider submitting it part by part so that evaluation is easier. 
