# BIDS - BEP029 Physical and virtual motion data
*Minutes for 25.08.2020*

__Present__: Sein Jeung (Chair), Stefan Appelhoff, Helena Cockx, Robert Oostenveld, Julius Welzel

In the following the most important point from a Skype call between the above mentioned members
are summarised. An agenda previous to the meeting was not provided.

## Agenda
1. Scope of BIDS-Motion extension
2. Data synchronisation
3. Sensor placement
4. Data format
5. Timeline

## Scope of BIDS-Motion
Sein Jeung started her work on the BIDS-Motion extension in the beginning of 2020 and it became an official BIDS extension (BEP029 - Virtual and physical motion data) in mid 2020. A
survey was put online (available until 30.09.20), to understand how users currently handle motion
data related workflow and what they look for in the BIDS-Motion extension. First results of this
survey were presented and discussed with all present members. It was agreed on the scope of
the extension, which is to develop BIDS compatible standards for non-brain motion data which is
usable with brain data from other BIDS formats.

## Data synchronisation
Synchronising different types of motion data streams show similar challenges other data formats
already dealt with. Different solutions on how this synchronisation should be done were presented.
Here a distinction was made between synchronisation of streams within a single modality and
between multiple modalities. Within a single modality (specifically motion data here), the irregularities
in the recording setup (i.e., different sampling rates between motion streams or fluctuating
sampling rate during one continuous recording) should be addressed prior to data sharing. This can
be achieved through re-sampling and or interpolation of the samples. The unprocessed data and
any relevant additional information such as time stamps is to be stored in the source data folder.
Finally members agreed on using events to make synchronisation between different data streams
possible. The possibility of making time stamps mandatory was discussed but discarded, because
using time stamps for synchronisation is a solution that is bound to specific recording setups.

## Sensor placement
Present members shared their experience on how initial sensor placement is currently handled.
The question for unified system which are independent of manufactures came up and will be handled
outside this BIDS extension.

## Data format
All members tentatively agreed on using binary coded UTF-8 data for this BIDS extension,
preferably .tsv. This is still subject to change depending on further responses to the survey.

## Timeline
Results of the survey will be made public after September 2020 and ongoing work on the
extension may be presented at conferences at the beginning of 2021. The first example data sets
and conversion scripts will focus on conversion from .xdf to .tsv.
